- [Narrator] In real-world deployments,
profiles can be one of the critical components
of a spring application,
and spring boot is no different.
So let's talk for a moment
about why profiles can be so important.
So again, why our profiles are so important
when we're dealing with it?
Profiles give you the ability to flex your configuration
based on the environment that the code is deployed to.
It's really valuable in real-world,
especially where you have many
multi environment deployments.
So thinking about the dev task, maybe a stage environment,
a pre-prod and a prod, all of those environments
may have a little bit different settings
when it comes to the components that you're going to consume,
and profiles in spring give you the power to do that
without creating multiple containers.
Finally, another use case that's not so common
but is really very valuable
is if you are running two different production domains.
Consider a hot-cold scenario or a live pre-live environment.
By using profiles, it gives you a lot of power
because you can overlap
where the prod environments are the same,
but you can have slightly different profiles
where they are not the same.
And that's really profiles in a gist.
One of the easiest ways to flex config based on profile
is through the application.yaml file.
Spring boot provides native Yaml support
and as such, the traditional application.properties file
becomes an application.Yaml file
in a spring boot application
that's going to be deployed to multiple environments.
This allows properties to flex by profile
among other things.
Spring.profiles is the key value
that you're going to put into your Yaml file
to indicate that all of the properties below it
are specific to that profile.
And we're going to show you an example of that.
Now, there are other ways to trigger configurations
based on a profile outside of the application.Yaml file.
And if you're really interested in looking at those,
I've got a course called spring framework in depth
that really digs a lot deeper
into the concept of spring profiles
and flexing configuration based on that profile.
In addition, in a cloud native environment
which has really spring boots forte,
it provides the environment
where you can leverage the configuration server.
But really, as you dig into that,
you will find out that it's nothing more
than application.Yaml that's been externalized.
Engaging profiles is a very simple process.
To engage a specific profile
in a spring boot application or any spring application
for that matter,
the key is the spring.profiles.active environment variable.
You can also pass that as a command line value,
but in the real world an environment variable
is much more common and you can set up your run time
ahead of time to have that environment variable ready.
So let's take a look at what a profile will look like
for an application.Yaml.
Let's open up that application.properties file
from source main resources again.
But before we actually open it, let's refactor it
to be a Yaml file instead of a properties file.
Now we can go into it
and we will delete what was there before.
So the first thing that we'll do
is we'll set up our spring profiles
and we'll set the first one to be dev.
Now in the dev profile,
we're going to set our server port to 8,000.
Now to separate our profiles, we will put three hyphens.
We're going to do the same thing.
We're going to set up spring profiles.
And in this case, we're going to do test, and on test,
we will run our application on 9,000.
Now let's go into our run configuration
and we're going to take our boot application.
Now, we can set this value two ways.
We can either set an environment variable,
or we can set a program argument.
I'm going to do the environment variable path.
So add an environment variable.
And again, this will look a little different on other IDEs
but you can do all of the same things
in each IDE that I've ever used.
So what we were going to set here.
So we're going to set a value of spring.profiles.active,
and we will set its value to be dev.
Now, if you're using IntelliJ ultimate,
you actually get some better ways of doing this,
but for now, let's just stick with it this way.
So let's apply this and let's run our application.
You'll see that with dev value set,
I've now started on 8,000.
So let's stop that.
Let's edit that configuration again,
and now let's send it to test, apply, run this.
And you'll see once again on the second to bottom line,
now we've started at 9,000.
So what happens if we don't have one set?
Let's go back in one more time
and let's set this equal to prod.
Before I hit run,
can you guess what it's going to run at?
8080, because that's the default.
We provided a profile that we don't have configuration for,
and as such, it will always default
to what the default value is for that configuration.